 Prof. Chuang
 
 CISC 3140

Assignment#3
                                
                                My Action Plan – Software Engineer Internship at Twitter

A well-developed action plan for a job interview can increase the chance of getting hired,
here are the steps I would make for the interview of software engineer internship at Twitter
(assuming I already got the interview invitation letter).


1.	Investigation of twitter: getting familiar with the company is a vital process in preparing a job interview. In order to show my passion to work in twitter, I will need to dig in a little deeper.  Such as get a deep sense of their products, services, as well as the company’s history, teams, mission statement and cultures, working environment, management... If possible, find some talks and conference regarding their engineering team. I can accomplish these by looking at twitter’s official website, social media, google news, etc. 
2.	Get to know myself: be prepare to make a impressive self-introduction, answer questions regarding personal education background and past working experiences. Be able to explain what kind of contributions I can bring to twitter just to show motivation to learn and do the work. 
3.	Researches:  research common asked interview questions and think of possible answers. Through various platforms such as Glassdoor, Leetcode, indeed… etc.
4.	Review concepts & expertise:  the most critical thing is to be familiar with expertise since I wouldn’t be able to get the job at all without being skilled in this area. Reviewing concepts of data structure, time complexity of algorithms, and relevant knowledges in programming. Be sure to practice coding interview. 
5.	Evaluation: After above steps, evaluating changes that need to be made in my resume and cover letter to meet their demands.
6.	Mock interview: do a mock interview with a family member or friend. A mock interview can help me to practice difficult questions, develop interview strategies, and reduce interview anxiety by familiarizing me with certain kind of situations. By doing this, I am able to gain feedback from my mock interviewer then getting know what can I improve.





A Summary of Me:

I have a comprehensive knowledge in java programming and object-oriented programming design such as, abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism. I know some fundamental stuff of C++, html, and CSS. Base on my past working experiences, I consider myself a great problem solver to solve various type of problems in a timely manner. Furthermore, I have strong written and verbal communication skills which is essential in working with a team.
However, I‘m probably not that skillful in applying knowledges that I have learned in real world because I literally do not have practical experience in this field. Therefore, I would like to take relevant classes to build these skills beyond the traditional workplace setting. Meanwhile, I agree that finding an internship will give me a beast possible opportunity to do the real works. Furthermore, I am not familiar with linux OS, and this is one thing I have to learn since Linux is everywhere and it is the most popular server OS on the internet and still growing. By learning linux, there are lot of online resources available on internet, some great platform include Udacity, udemy, coursera, edX…ect.
